# 5.1 Intergrate Data

This sub-process links data files data from one or more sources. It is where the results of sub-processes in the "Collect" phase are combined. The collected data can be from a mixture of external or internal sources, including extracts of administrative and other non-statistical data sources. Administrative data or other non-statistical sources of data can substitute for all or some of the variables directly collected from a survey. This sub-process also includes harmonising or creating new figures that agree between sources of data. The result is a set of linked data. Data integration can include:

- Combining data from multiple sources, as part of the creation of integrated statistics such as national accounts;
- Combining geospatial data and statistical data or other non-statistical data;
- Data pooling, with the aim of increasing the effective number of observations of some phenomena;
- Matching or record linkage routines, with the aim of linking micro or macro data from different sources;
- Data fusion - integration followed by reduction or replacement;
- Prioritising is when two or more sources contain data for the same variable, with potentially different values.

There may also be several instances of data integration in any statistical business process. Integration takes data protection principles into account by de-identifying, that is stripping of identifiers such as name and address, to help to protect confidentiality.

## Inputs

- Collected data from multiple sources

## Outputs

- Integrated data

## Documentation and Tools

- Statistical Softwares (Stata,R e.t.c)
- Data integration Report

## Latest update

19th March 2024

## Verified

_date_

<button onclick="history.back()">Go Back</button>

[Go to Home page](../index.md)
