
# 4.3 Run Collection

## Process

This sub-process is where the data collection is implemented. The different collection instruments are used to collect or gather the information which may include raw microdata or aggregates produced at the source, as well as any associated metadata. It can include the initial contact with providers and respondents and any subsequent follow-up or reminder actions or call-backs. It may include manual data entry at the point of contact, or fieldwork management and technical support, depending on the source and collection mode, including web-scraping. It records when and how providers and respondents were contacted, and whether they have responded. Depending on the geographical frame and the technology used, geo-coding may need to be done at the same time as collection of the data by using inputs from GPS, putting a mark on a map, etc. 

This sub-process also includes the management of the providers involved in the current collection, ensuring that the relationship between the statistical organisation, data providers  and other relevant stakeholders remains positive, and recording and responding to comments, queries and complaints. Proper communication and sensitization with reporting units and minimisation of non-response contribute significantly to a higher quality of the collected data.

For administrative, geographical or other non-statistical data, the provider is either contacted to send the information or sends it as scheduled or the provider is physically visited to provide the information. This process may be time consuming and might require follow-ups to ensure that data are provided according to the agreements. In the case where the data are published under an Open Data license and exist in machine-readable form, they may be freely accessed and used.

This sub-process may also include the monitoring of data collection and making any necessary changes to improve data quality. This includes generating reports, visualising and adjusting the acquisition process to ensure the data are fit for use. When data collection period elapses and the collection meets its targets, it is closed and a report on the collection is produced. Some basic checks of the structure and integrity of the information received may take place within this sub-process, (e.g. checking that files are in the right format and contain the expected fields).

## Input

- [Outputs from sub-process 4.2](4.2.md)
- Trained staff
- Data collection strategy
- Dashboard
- Informed respondents
- Data collection instruments 

## Output

- Collected data and meta-data
- Data collection report
- Data quality reports

## Documentation and Tools

- Feedback and complaint template
- Communication strategy
- Data validation procedure/instruction
- Training manual
- Contact list of data suppliers
- Checklist for key firms
- Survey solution
- Scripts

## Latest update

19th March 2024

## Verified

_date_

<button onclick="history.back()">Go Back</button>

[Go to Home page](../index.md)
