
# 4.4 Finalise collection

This sub-process includes loading the collected data and metadata into a suitable electronic environment for further processing. Documentation of identified gaps during data entry for use in quality declarations. It may include manual or automatic data capture, for example, using data entry staff or optical character recognition tools to extract information from paper questionnaires, or converting the formats of files or encoding the variables received from other organisations.
It may also include analysis of the metadata and paradata associated with collection to ensure the collection activities have met requirements. In cases where there is a physical collection instrument, such as a paper questionnaire, which is not needed for further processing, this sub-process manages the storage of that material. When the collection instrument uses software such as an API or an app, this sub-process also includes the versioning and storage of these.
It also involves return and safe custody keeping of all collection instruments, unutilized survey materials as outlined in sub process 4.2 (under collection strategy).

## Input

- Output form sub-process [4.3](4.3.md)
- Output form sub-process from [4.2](4.2.md)
- Checklist  for return of materials and items issued.

## Output

- Data
- Collect (field work) report
- Stored materials and data collection applications  
- Report of returned, stored and disposed materials

## Documentation and Tools

Guidelines for storage, lost, damaged and disposal of assets and equipment, incl safekeeping _link_

## Latest update

19th March 2024

## Verified

_date_

<button onclick="history.back()">Go Back</button>

[Go to Home page](../index.md)
