
# 1.6 Prepare and submit business case

This sub-process documents the findings of the other sub-processes in this phase in the form of a business for approval to implement the new or modified statistical business process. Such a business case needs to conform to the requirements of the approval body. This will include elements such as:

i. A description of the "As-Is" business process (to be developed if it’s not available), with information on how the current statistics are produced, highlighting any inefficiencies and issues to be addressed;
ii. The proposed "To-Be" solution, details how the statistical business process will be developed to produce the new or revised statistics.
iii. An assessment of costs and benefits, as well as any external constraints.

The business case describes options and makes recommendations, the benefits, costs, deliverables, time frame, budget, required technical and human resources, risk assessment and impact on stakeholders for each option.

After the business case is prepared, it is submitted for approval to move to the next phase of the business process. Typically, the business case is reviewed and formally approved or disapproved by the appropriate persons/committee.

## Input

- Draft of the business case, details on data to be collected

## Output

- Business case, confirmation on the details of the survey like the budget and resources

## Documentation and Tools

- Legal framework for carrying out the survey

## Latest update

<button onclick="history.back()">Go Back</button>

19th March 2024

## Verified

_date_

[Go to Home page](../index.md)