
# 3.1 Reuse or build collection instruments

This sub-process describes the activities to build and reuse the collection instruments to be used during the "Collect" phase. The collection instruments are built based on the design specifications created during the "Design" phase. A collection may use one or more modes to receive the data (e.g., personal or telephone interviews; paper, electronic or web questionnaires; SDMX web services). Collection instruments may also be data extraction routines used to gather data from existing statistical or administrative registers (e.g., by using existing service interfaces). This subprocess also includes preparing and testing the contents and functioning of that collection instrument (e.g., cognitive testing of the questions in a questionnaire). It also includes the preparation of maps as well as translation of the collection instrument. It is recommended to consider the direct connection of collection instruments to a metadata system so that metadata can be more easily captured in the collection phase. Connecting metadata and data at the point of capture can save work in later phases. Capturing the metrics of data collection (paradata) is also an important consideration in this sub-process for calculating and analysing process quality indicators. The data collection instruments/CAPI software will guide data extraction routines through the right statistical analysis software or administrative registers that are used

## Input

- [Outputs from Phase 1](../Process1/1.md)

## Output

- Data collection instruments

## Documentation and Tools

## Latest update

19th March 2024

## Verified

_date_

<button onclick="history.back()">Go Back</button>

[Go to Home page](../index.md)