# Manage the release of dissemination products

This sub-process ensures that all elements for the release are in place including managing the timing of the release and media relations. It includes briefings for specific groups such as the press or ministers or stakeholders, as well as the arrangements for any pre-release embargoes. It also includes the provision of products to subscribers, and managing access to confidential data by authorised user groups, such as researchers. Sometimes an organisation may need to retract a product, for example, if an error is discovered or need to do an addendum to correct any realized error in the product. This is also included in this sub-process. The sub-process also entails mapping out stakeholders to attend the launch and sending invitations to them as well as to identify keynote speakers during the launch of the product to the public. It also involves distributing the printed copies to stakeholders, stocking the library with the new products, publishing the product online on the organization website. Storing for future references and final archiving of all produced and disseminated products is also undertaken in this sub-process.

## Inputs

- Micro-data and metadata dissemination platform 
- Data assistants
- Server and Website
- Release Calendar

## Outputs

- List of stakeholders
- Speeches by keynote speakers
- Press releases
- Disseminated products
- Uploaded microdata and metadata and report
- Stored/archived products

## Documentation and Tools

- Access to information act
- Data protection act

## Latest update

19th March 2024

## Verified

_date_

<button onclick="history.back()">Go Back</button>

[Go to Home page](../index.md)