
# 2.3 Design collection

This sub-process determines the most appropriate collection instruments and methods which may depend on:
i.The type of data collection (census, sample survey, or other), the collection unit type (enterprise, person, or other) and
ii.The available sources of data.

The actual activities in this sub-process will vary according to the type of collection instrument required, which can include computer-assisted interviewing, paper questionnaires, administrative registers (e.g. by using existing service interfaces), data transfer methods, web-scraping technologies as well as technology for geospatial data. Direct or indirect use of administrative data may be introduced in the data collection mode for either controlling survey data or assisting it when capturing survey information.

This sub-process includes the design of the collection instruments, questions and response templates (in conjunction with the variables and statistical classifications designed in sub-process [2.2](2.2.md)). It also includes the confirmation of any formal agreements. This sub-process is enabled by tools such as question libraries (to facilitate the reuse of questions and related attributes), questionnaire tools (to enable the quick and easy compilation of questions into formats suitable for cognitive testing) and agreement templates (to help standardise terms and conditions). This sub-process also includes the design of provider management systems that are specific to this business process. 

Where statistical organisations do not collect data directly (i.e. a third party controls the collection and processing of the data), this sub-process may include the design of mechanisms to monitor the data and the metadata to assess the impacts of any change made by the third party.

## [Refer to sub-process 2.2](2.2.md)

## Input

- Data collection instruments
- ICT Systems
- Variables to be used.

## Output

- Design of the collection instruments and management systems 

## Documentation and Tools

- ICT Infrastructure

## Latest update

19th March 2024

## Verified

_date_

<button onclick="history.back()">Go Back</button>

[Go to Home page](../index.md)
